[Music]
seven driving habits that ruin your car
and drain your wallet
[Music]
have you already been driving for many
years or are you just starting to drive
this activity can be both exciting and
exhausting of course firstly it depends
on road conditions however there is one
more important thing to be considered
while driving the behavior of your car
the longer you own a car the more
driving habits you acquire unfortunately
not all of those habits are good ones
moreover the more experienced you become
the harder it is to break them and very
often those habits can affect the
condition of your car we decided to
compile examples of unwise driving
behavior hopefully this video will help
you avoid dangerous situations and
unnecessary expenses
[Music]
number seven rest in your hand on the
gear stick
[Music]
many people have the habit of resting
their hand on the gift stick while
driving this shouldn't be done for
several reasons the most obvious is that
you need both hands to steer another
harmful effect is that such small yet
constant pressure on the gearbox turns
it into a kind of cocktail shaker
displacing synchronizers and gears this
in turn leads to problems with shifting
gears whether you own an automatic or
manual car a transmission that is not
working correctly can cause serious
problems both under the hood and out on
the road moreover transmissions are very
complex
they have many moving parts so this bad
habit can easily bring you huge expenses
for transmission repairs so next time
you decide to rest your hand in the gear
stick
remember the consequences and better
move it to the steering wheel
[Music]
number six refueling only when the tank
is almost empty when your car is not in
use mechanical impurities accumulate in
the fuel tank and sediment forms at the
bottom the dirt gets into the filters
and the pump causing damage the purpose
of the latter is to get fuel from the
fuel tank and deliver it according to
the demands of the engine during winter
months be sure to always leave the tank
at least half filled with fuel to avoid
the formation of large amounts of
condensate in freezing conditions the
presence of water in the fuel tank can
lead to its deformation and other
problems
[Music]
number five frequent breaking
keep your distance and merger with the
traffic this is what they teach you in
driving schools however if you keep
breaking unnecessarily you better set
aside a hefty sum for regular brake pad
and disc replacements to avoid
unpleasant accidents
remember to promptly change the brake
hoses and keep your eye on the brake
fluid level keep in mind that braking is
another skill to be mastered it takes a
certain skill level to do it correctly
moreover appropriate braking will make
the driving process less stressful for
both the driver and the passengers here
are some instructions for proper braking
technique place the heel of the right
foot on the floor it should be close
enough to the pedal and the ball of the
foot should touch the center of the
brake pedal remember that most of the
weight of the foot should be on the
floor while giving the pedal light
pressure cautiously increase the
pressure until the car is almost at a
complete stop ease up the brake pedal a
bit before the complete stop that will
help to keep the vehicle from bouncing
back too hard
[Music]
number four ignoring suspicious sounds
[Applause]
as your car started to give suspicious
sounds have you already taken it to the
service garage if not then you should do
it right away
slight creaking sounds and other unusual
noises can indicate a malfunction many
drivers tend to ignore these signs and
add as a result their cars often break
down in the middle of the road where it
might create trouble not knowing what to
do with the car moreover it might be
dangerous as well please use the
following steps to safely move your
vehicle away from the highway to avoid
the possible danger first pull over to a
safe spot don't hesitate to ask for any
possible assistance because the process
might not be as easy as it seems and
remember to switch on the hazard lights
if the card is completely broken down
and you cannot start it just push into a
safe place after try to diagnose the
issue if you cannot figure out the
problem call the police or roadside
services to get their proper help
therefore if your car starts emitting
unnatural sounds be sure to run proper
Diagnostics to identify the problem and
deal with it in time
[Music]
number three neglecting to use the
handbrake when you park your car with an
automatic transmission on a slope the
entire burden falls in the lock gear of
the output shaft of the gearbox to
successfully Park on an incline hold the
foot brake and shift into park then pull
the handbrake and only then slowly
release the brake it doesn't really
matter if your car has a manual or an
automatic transmission car manufacturers
recommend the use of the parking brake
to immobilize any parked vehicle number
two running a cold engine at high revs
[Music]
most modern engines don't need warming
up however it is worth remembering that
until the gauge indicates operating
temperature one shouldn't learn the
engine at more than 2,000 revs in
freezing conditions it is advisable to
keep the engine running for one to two
minutes before pulling away all you need
to do is start the car and let it idle
for a couple of minutes to keep the
engine working during this time you can
clean your windows adjust the mirrors
and your driver's seat
[Music]
number one keeping your foot on the
brake while driving downhill many
motorists tend to keep their foot on the
brake pedal while driving downhill to be
ready to stop at any moment this leads
to brake system overheating and wearing
out of brake pads and discs the proper
thing to do is to shift to a lower gear
and initiate engine braking which helps
to reduce the use of normal brakes it
works by reducing the speed of the
engine which means that the speed of the
vehicle reduces also the aim is to
prevent the vehicle from gaining too
fast to speed especially while going
downhill don't get scared of the noise
that you will hear when you use this
method of engine braking that is pretty
normal
by the way car racers often use this
trick is down shifting to slow down the
car before another turn and remember to
drive carefully and patiently as John
Irving rode in his last night in twisted
River and just because you're sober
don't think you're a good driver do you
know any other bad driving habits share
them in the comment section below don't
forget to hit the like button below the
video click subscribe to join us on the
bright side of life
[Music]
you